---
title: "Boketto - a sample from Jen Durbent's <em>canon</em>"
---

Today, we'd like to share a poem from Jen Durbent's wonderful poetry collection, [*canon*](/canon). The collection features works on a wide variety of topics and varying in form from epic to haiku.

<!--more-->

In *Boketto*, Durbent explores politics and resistance through the persona of Lady Liberty.

How does she resist? Does she riot? Does she rage against the state? Does she throw stones and beat her fists against the police shields? Or does she go home and calmly writes words that will change minds and hearts? Does she write invective? Does she write thinkpieces? What could Lady Liberty possibly do to sway the masses in this day and age?

Perhaps she resigns in her efforts, the time and energy of resisting in any meaningful way being too much for one person just trying to get by in the world. Her day job, grief over injustice, and life as a trans woman in America leave little enough room for someone to effect any change.

<div class="verse">
Lady liberty, trans woman,
sits on the cement banks of the Potomac.
In her left hand, cherry blossoms
from last year. She plucks one at a time
with her right, then tosses them
in the river. They ride the current
out of sight. Will she live to see
them bloom again?

A kerchief (from her murdered
sister justice's eyes)
pulled down over her nose and mouth,
keeps out tear gas from
containers behind her proudly made in USA.

A moment of doubt: should
she collect rocks in her pockets? Should
she fall into the water? Let her strength
seep away. Perhaps. But not today.

She stands, looks, crosses the street
unseen by police, walking home
to a small apartment far from K street,
far from Pennsylvania avenue,
far from the mall,
where she can get to work.
</div>

You can pick up *canon* [here](/canon) or at many fine online booksellers.
